= 2009-05-06 =

* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': Agenda+ Workshop planning
* ''Yongqun He'': OBI workshop?
* ''jennifer fostel'': i will not be there in person, but hope to join remotely
* ''jennifer fostel'': we need SAS or PRS on the call to plan
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': ok, lets wait a few minutes and see who shows up
* ''Yongqun He'': I have registered for OBI and OBO workshops
* ''jennifer fostel'': great!
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': where's the OBI registration?
* ''jennifer fostel'': old items - manuscript and tracker reminder
* ''Yongqun He'': Registration for OBO and OBI meetings:
* ''Yongqun He'': http://events.embl.org/iEBMS/reg/reg_p1_form.aspx?oc=20&ct=GBPNORMAL&eventid=5010
* ''Yongqun He'': http://www.obofoundry.org/wiki/index.php/OBO_Foundry_Workshop_2009
* ''Chris Stoeckert'': topics - manuscript status
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - IAO-OBI coordination
* ''Chris Stoeckert'': topics - related to that are use cases and first release
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': Found PRS, he will join us now 
* ''jennifer fostel'': obi covers biomedical investigations
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - OBI distributions
* ''jennifer fostel'': if we are outside of this scope we need ULRO
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - Is OBI ready for release 1.0? If not what is needed
* ''jennifer fostel'': we are working with BS
* ''jennifer fostel'': +1 AR!
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - using OWL 2 features
* ''Yongqun He'': +1
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - external ontology coordination. Status, issues, actions
* ''Larisa Soldatova'': we lost PRS [ he has connection troubles and will send email]
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - moving quickterms/quickid into production
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - review of IEDB OWL export/ IEDB-OBI coordination
* ''jennifer fostel'': IEDB?
* ''Yongqun He'': Immune Epitope DB
* ''Chris Stoeckert'': Jie will likely attend
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - Jie report on checking that MGED terms are in OBI or other OBO foundry ontologies
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - status of Vaccine ontology/OBI coordination
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - EFO/OBI coordination
* ''Larisa Soldatova'': topics - funding opportunities
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - ISATAB demo
* ''jennifer fostel'': BP is busy so no update on ms
* ''jennifer fostel'': we are all working on tracker
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': topics - branch reports
* ''Alan Ruttenberg'': I will summarize notes and send mail to list
* ''jennifer fostel'': bye, and thanks!!
