==Minute from Face to Face meeting summer 2009 @ EBI==

===Tuesday AM 9th June===
Attending: JM, BP, NM, MC, FG, DD, PL, LS


'''Collaboration with Envo'''

JM: We have some sample information in AE which relates to Envo scope

NM: Env are holes or sites with qualities that enable the area or site to support life is current thinking. Env sampling would be taking some quantity from this area or site. I assume you would want to represent env sample from the point of a sample going through an assay.

MC: If you have bacteria in an organism then the organism is an environment, so is it a role?

BP: So we don't have environment at moment, we will have sample collected from site in OBI. There is a class site in BFO so we should define things in OBI under this. We don't worry about whether it is an environment this becomes clear when it is involved in a sample collection process.

LS: It would be good from our point of view to have a higher level class for environment

FG: This shouldn't matter if we use BP proposed approach.  So any env should be under site and then in future we can adjust this when envo has definition.  

MC: How do we deal with having things under material that we want to say are environments?

BP: If we say mucous membrane then we talk about this class defining a site.

FG: So they are completely different

BP: So inside of my body is a site and this is 

FG: material has_part site

BP: Barry has said this is completely clear under BFO so we should follow this

MC: What do we (OBI) need to do for Envo

FG: We submit anything we consider site to the Envo tracker (see OBO foundry sourceforge site)

JM: I can generate list of sites from AE and pass that on to NM if useful

NM: Yes that would be useful. We are doing rocks and sludge, land cover such as agriculture and urban areas from satellite views of world, anatomical regions, holes in which you would find bacteria growing

NM gives demon of wonton ontology browser (URL is not shareable for this as currently private)

NM: Env and habitats and how you instantiate relations in OBI. Envo is trying to remove all reference ot habitats because we want to only reference site.

FG: Defining environments are outside scope of OBI (agreement from room)


'''Assessing use cases in OBI paper'''

BP: Discussion about replacing one of use cases from OBI Journal paper with the evidence code use case, discussed during the OBO Foundry workshop

FG: I would suggest adding a further use case.

LS: Should we just add this to existing use cases rather than create a new one?

BP: So the EC ontology exists and the idea is to replace all of the EC IDs with an OBI identifier. This is a use case for OBI.

FG: Competency question is can we replace EC IDs with OBI IDs, and second can we serve same queries. I would like to go through existing use cases first and then do other use cases.

MC: I would like to address EC one

FG: Only if we address other use cases first, this is priority (the journal use cases).

JM: How are we going to do this, I woudl like a process for this session

FG: Can we take each use case and represent it in actual OWL.

'''GenePattern use case'''

BP: Visualization is a process so it should be under planned process, presently it is obsoleted

JM: It should be put back in if useful

FG: We should add OBI IDs next to each name in the manuscript

BP: I think instead we should not do this as it is annoying to read, instead we add this in suppl material

JM: I agree, I think we need to make it easy to read first

FG: clustering process needs to be renamed in manuscript to class discovery data transformation (OBI_0200175), normalization process needs to be renamed in manuscript to normalization data transformation (OBI_0200169)

AI: Rename the above in the figure in the manuscript

Discussion about how we link the data item that is output from DT to the report graph that visualizes it. 

JM: The part that is missing is the link between the data and report graph

Summary of discussion: We will make the connection by saying a report graph is_about some data item and then add the specific details for each class.  So for clustering data the link will be, e.g. dendrogram is_about some tree-like data set (of which clustered data set will be a subclass) or .... etc.  This will make the connection between our data sets, the DTs and the report graphs that render the data.  This will enable us to represent the GenePattern use case, e.g. tell me all report graphs that can visualise clustered data sets (i.e. output of clustering data transformations).

AI: JM + MC: to add the is_about relations between data sets and report graphs, priority is to get clustering example from GenePattern completed.  MC will help from IAO side as most of these axioms will be on IAO classes.

'''
Immune Epitope DB Use Case'''

BP: In this use case there is an issue which is that I created an intermediate ontology for our purposes because we needed a lot of assays in quickly and OBI is not stable and also takes time to add classes to.  So in many ways this does is not the best demonstration of OBI because it advocates a bespoke ontology.

FG: Can't you import this bespoke ontology back into OBI

BP: we have done some work on this

FG: Is epitope within scope of OBI, i would be inclined to say yes

BP: It is not clear to me whether it is or not.  What we have done with the ontology is build it around OBI but given them ONTIE IDs and keep them apart for now.  (BP shows ontology)  There are def some things that belong in OBI ELISA assy for example, but we have very specific assays which are granular because we use them in work, not sure if OBI needs these

JM: Questions are, is in scope, who would be keeper for this if it wasn't and would it become sep ontology or sep file imported in?

BP: I would be happy to give these OBI IDs but equally fine with them being in sep file.  

FG: This is a good use of how to build an application focused ontology under OBI

JM: I agree, similar to way we are trying to build for AE

AI: BP decide whether these should be added to OBI and come up with list of requirements before this can happen (i.e. adding things to OBI)

AI: MC + AR to check if this can be accommodated once above is done

FG: The slant needs to be changed in journal so that it shows that OBI can be extended for application ontology successfully

JM: Agreed this will become AI for BP (see below)

AI: BP The slant needs to be changed in journal so that it shows that OBI can be extended for application ontology successfully

FG: Presently, as OBI stands, we can't do all of this use case

BP: No, it still requires a few things, but all doable before journal is out

BP: I can add more specific info as well, like these are classews you get back from this query too, but i'm not sure it is interesting and we already have the GenePattern querying use case

FG: I think this is still useful as it's from a diff perspective, using application specific external ontology

MC: Do we explain why this useful, what advantages of using this approach are

BP: Yes, we explain in journal paper where demonstrate how this could tie in different resources using a single query

MC: But you are going to query using SPARQL oui? Something about ducks and genes querying GO and pubmed at same time, so why is this good to have in OBI instead of 3 different resources?

BP: This is fine as long it is all in based on OBI structure

MC: Pat√©

BP: Second part for IEDB was to use ontology to validate using consistency checks

FG: Add this to discussion perhaps to save space, it is useful to say though

JM: Agreed with above

BP: OK will move it

MC: Shall we put in examples, for example we can check for x, y or seagull?

BP: Yes so we do this


'''Use case 3: JF representing a protocol'''

BP: So the us case discusses a protocol and how we can represent this.  We don't have in OBI, ethics committee, enroll balanced cohorts, placebo is still problematic, none of this can be done presently in OBI. 

FG: Maybe we should stop at first part or not include it at all given we can't do it

JM: So pros and cons as I se it, pro is it does talk about a study and the parts therein which is different and is critical to OBI's scope.  Con, I don't see this is an actual use case, what is USAGE here, is it annotation, template query, etc, also does this overlap with early methods section describing how we represent bits of studies?

FG: I think we don't cover most of this in ontology and it doesn't show use as in use case so we should consider dropping it

JM: Can we make modifications rather than drop?

MC: In what way is it not use case?  

JM: Use cases have an actor that show how the ontology will be used in a given scenario, this is largely a coverage example at present, but this can be modified to become a use case.

FG: Issues still remains we don't cover it

PL: This is a use case which is describing utility

FG: yes but it needs updating as it's not correct at present.  I'm not saying delete it but we should reformulate it.  

JM: I think we need a third use case and if we even thought about replacing it we would still be faced with issue of requireing some work for a new use case so doesn't remove the problem.  i would prefer to reformulate this and fix OBI

FG: so we need to go back to JF with the following four questions what is it the experiment you are trying to do? how do you model this? how are you using OBI? what are queries?

AI: BP: to ask JF the following four questions what is it the experiment you are trying to do? how do you model this? how are you using OBI? what are queries?  This will enable use case to be completed

===Tuesday PM 9th June===

'''Looking at first section of manuscript'''

BP: We need a class that is high level, such as our anatomical entity, that we can import from external ontology. We need to be able to import a species neutral 

AI: Biomaterial to contact Chris about species neutral anatomy (UBERON) as we need to import this into OBI

FG: chemical entities in solution why is this solution and not liquid?

MC: shall this be a defined class?

BP: No.  more generally we are trying to model mixtures but we have limited to this for now.

BP: In an ideal world we would have a term 'mixture'.  This is where we need to demonstrate the has_grain relation

MC: If we add this into the journal now we will take up a lot of space

FG: so chemical mixture is defined as mixture of one or more homogenous chemicals.  SO i think what chemical entities in solution describe is chemicals in a solution which is not a mixture.  So are you saying you want mixture class?

BP: Yes I feel we should have this, since we have mixed materials generally not accounted for in OBI.  At same time we have some issues saying, for example, why a cell is not one.

ET: yes

BP: Process material we have in, specimen and blood sample etc needs to be removed from manuscript and realigned with what we have in OBI. Postpone for 30mins for Phil to get back as we would like an outside review.  We had discussion in previous workshop to skip specimen and sample but we can't avoid this any more.

JM: Agree we need to address these terms, they belong in OBI if anywhere.

MC: grml

FG: Protein is not a type of peptide

BP: This is not an OBI issue, it is defined as such in external ontologies, chebi and pro.  We don't have recombinant expression system in OBI can we add it

FG: We need to say proteins can be synthesised or whatever

BP: This is not the same, i think natural language works here.

FG: We don't have agent in OBI

BP: No but this is in preparation for objective specification-planned process part, but we perhaps don't have space to add all the details in manuscript

FG: Agreed

===Action Items===

AI: JM to generate list of sample envs from AE and submit to Envo

AI: JM to edit the figure for the GenePattern manuscript to reflect the wording in OBI, e.g. normalization process in figure should be normalization data transformation

AI: JM + MC: to add the is_about relations between data sets and report graphs, priority is to get clustering example from GenePattern completed.  MC will help from IAO side as most of these axioms will be on IAO classes.

AI: BP decide whether these should be added to OBI and come up with list of requirements before this can happen (i.e. adding things to OBI)

AI: MC + AR to check if this can be accommodated once above is done

AI: BP The slant needs to be changed in journal so that it shows that OBI can be extended for application ontology successfully

AI: BP: to ask JF the following four questions what is it the experiment you are trying to do? how do you model this? how are you using OBI? what are queries? This will enable use case to be completed

AI: Biomterial branch: to contact Chris about species neutral anatomy (UBERON) as we need to import this into OBI
