==Tuesday Jan 29 Notes==

Emerging Action Items:

<b>
AI: Term problem solution sheet to be generated by RB to be sent to advisors if needed

AI: Develop a documentation plan for OBI and assign tasks JM/MC/BB. Deadline for docs and plan by March 1

AI: Branch/Individual review of other branches by March - all

AI: Develop a test plan for the OBI release, document and execute BB

AI:Take use cases and see if OBI can be used to complete these use cases, need some kind of template for this: NEEDS A DEADLINE BY END OF WEEK

* RS:Volunteer to do a use case clinical study

* RB:Flow cytometry use case

* JM/HP:AE

* PRS/BII use case

* BB:BIRN use case

* JG:Immunity use case

* CS:JF SIFT use case

* GenePattern use case  (CS/HP)

AI: Developing a long term (5 year) management plan for the OBI grant - AR/BP/BS

AI:Find the original doc for authorship policy and take to a coord conference call when we have a paper in draft CS


AI:Develop a use case that shows cross database integration using OBI and add a milestone for the long term plan - needs volunteers

AI:OBI coordinators should nominate 1 or 2 people to be OBI associate editors - agenda item for a coordinators call CS
</b>
======================================================================================

<b>Agenda</b>

Each branch will be allocated one hour for discussion. If some time remains at the end of these 2 days we can come back on some of them.

format: 10 min presentation, 50 min discussion

morning: 9-12

9-10: CENTRA CALL: 9-10 PST

Skype available seems to work for free-to-listen - message susanna

Moderation - self-moderate your slot. Will cutoff discussion at 59 minutes, leaving time to recognize contribution of others.

OBI Completion Milestones

1) OBI "Working" Release - Have OBI at a stage we are ready to have people use requires:

    * Curation_status curation_complete OK (TBD) on all terms - March 1
    * Individual review of OBI
          o Term;problem;solution submitted March 15
          o Problems without suggestions reviewed by group, then advisors 
    * Use cases worked out through OBI to demonstrate "it works"
    * Versioning policy (and other OBO Foundry requirements http://obofoundry.org/crit.shtml)
    * Documentation on how to use 
    * Each branch list of requirements to be completed to complete by March 1.
    * Branch review of other branches


2) Manuscript requires (1) and:

    * Authorship plan
    * Some text 


3) OBO Foundry release

=========================================================================================
RB:Issues with branch development, easy to find things that are wrong, better to generate solutions. Proposal in AI below.

<b>AI: Term problem solution sheet to be generated by RB to be sent to advisors if needed</b>

RB:problem that we don't have any tools in the short term for naive users, but docs will help us

RS:We need a user documentation plan, and assign people tasks 

HP:what's the deadline for the release?

RB:deadline for wrapping up issues at this workshop is March 1, by end of the week we'll decide on a release date

BB:Test plan, 

<b>AI: Develop a documentation plan for OBI and assign tasks JM/MC/BB</b>

<b>AI: Develop a test plan for the OBI release, document and execute BB</b>

SS:If I need to add terms in the short term, how do I deal with that?

BP:We need the terms that work for cross branch terms

RB:I would say I need this, and offer a solution

RS:useful if you add to existing h'archy for the other branches

SS:do we use the tracker

RS:Volunteer to do a use case clinical study

RB:Flow cytometry use case

JM/HP:AE

PRS/BII use case

BB:BIRN use case

JG:Immunity use case

HP:What will be the format?

RB:Protege not the first tool that people will need to use

BP:Free text query and translation into OBI terms

AR:Could put them into my triple store. What is the goal?

RB:We want people to start using OBI, and we need to show what OBI is useful for

JM:We are identifying a different user group here

HP:I liked the mapping of the spreadsheet from RS and the use case translation from Bjoern, these are good representations

SS:I think we are mixing two things, showing what OBI could be used for, and we show ourselves  for the next workshop, then we can use for other people. I want to work on what I need.

RS:I was thinking making sure that the high level content was there

HP:I think we need to do this for us as internal review and then put it out there, we need to do this.

BS:Grant proposal, all the use case descriptions will be useful. We didn't have a long term plan for timelines for 5 years. We need also to think in longer terms.

RB:If you want to access some funds then talk to BS

AR:That's a larger question for longer term questions

<b>AI: Developing a long term (5 year) management plan for the OBI grant - AR/BP/BS</b>

RB:What's the deadline on the use cases?

BP::Lets do this at the end of today and we'll know then where we are.

RB: I think we will need more time than that

RS:If we are talking about July then I would like to do in 2 phases

RB:Manuscript, all of above must be done. Authorship. Came up as part of the discussion at dinner. Need to think about that in advance as people will commit time for this. Two ways that the authorship is done, authors by name. Co-authors and last get the credit, needed for careers. OR Authored by the OBI consortium, could be authored as a list of credit. Personally think if we go for OBI consortium junior people need the authorship, the effort needs to go in. Is it possible to recognise people with more effort than others. I know this is contentious

BP:I also will author a personal publication IEDB using OBI, put out many OBI related publications

AR:Want to work on small micro parts of OBI, e.g. Information Entity

BS:Swamping is good for raising funding. We need that for the grant. We discussed in some detail at previous meetings, Chris S. There is a management proposal and there are branches that people can get the credit whenever a branch is used. If Chris has worked this out then we need to see if the previous model works.

RS: I do think additional manuscripts allows for additional credit, even if in middle of the pack.

BP:I see a Nature Biotech. Article, we can use the fact that there will other papers to help determine that paper. 

AR:Other papers, suppose I want to write a paper re use of Roles, what's the protocol?

BS:Writing is hard, everyone will not do that. People should just do it, contact the other relevant people, e.g. role branch, and if you want to do this send round a larger group, and most of the work will always be done by the first author.

BP:This is important, we need to focus on OBI Deb

BS:We need to think about different journals. Journals - Journal Royal Soc of Chem, Colin Batchelor, already involved in OBO foundry efforts and we can use the journal to work on that. If someone has a chemistry use case contact him. We need to target Nature etc as well in the long run

RS:I don't want to make decisions about authorship at this meeting. 

RB:I want a policy. 

SS:We put something in a doc

<b>AI:Find the original doc for authorship policy and take to a coordinators conference call SS
</b>

AR:do small papers preceed OBI

RS: I don't think we should put out a paper before the main OBI paper

AR: The publication could take a year

RS: Then we need some impetus

RB: We need to get this done, and so authorship is a key thing

AR: What about workshop publications

RS: We are all doing that should be the public face of the presentations

JM: There were some questions during a recent presentation I did. If we release papers now then we need answers to these questions. I would be concerned about releasing it like it was finished

CS: If there is an OBO foundry paper then the decision was that it is by the OBO consortium

RB:I brought this up, as there are some junior people that are doing some of the work, we need a policy for people that we can recognise.

JW:One way that this could work for my community would be a real practical example with real data that people have some interest. Will there be instance level data. We'd like all the data  in that format? Want to see that level of integration of that data. Would be a nice way of dealing with data in that way. 

AR:that will not happen without active work to do that. That is worth considering as a monthly meeting.

RB:Process requirements for OBO release are now in discussion. We have two more weeks to do that.

BS:OBI will need a couple of people to be associate OBI editors, and their role will be to nominate coord editors every couple of years

<b>AI:OBI coordinators should nominate 1 or 2 people to be OBI associate editors - agenda item for a coordinators call</b>
