==Vancouver Notes. Monday 28 Jan 2008==

[[MondayJan28Notes]]

[[TuesdayJan29Notes]]

Participants In person
----------------------
*Melanie Courtot,
*Ryan Brinkman,
*Helen Parkinson,
*Liju Fan,
*James Malone,
*Philippe Rocca-Serra,
*Susanna Sansone,
*Alan Ruttenberg
*Barry Smith,
*Richard Scheuerman,
*Bill Bug,
*Bjoern Peters,
*Jason Greenbaum

Also attending:
-------------------------
*Cartik Kothari, (Mark Wilkinson's group) - developing ontology for gel electrophoresis experiments
*John Westbrook - Structural Biology, pdb - sites that do direct data acquisition for PDB archive (EBI, USA, Japan)

By Phone/Centra:
---------------
*Jennifer Fostel,
*Rashid from CEBS,
*Daniel Schober,
*Elisabetta Manduchi,
*Raki Bhat,
*Chris Stoekert

==Emerging Action Items==
<b>AI: AR/BP/BS - will refine the analyte proposal. There are placement issues to resolve.

AI: AR/BB/JF - BB will produce a TRUE role subset of the INOH Molecular Role ontology, which AR will review, and pass on to JF.

AI: Send Enviroment Ontology related terms to BS for him to present in Manchester, esp. RS

AI:Richard to communicate with Suzi Lewis and Chris Mungall on OBD future, overlap syngeries with OBI

AI:AR,BD will go to the relations ontology meeting in Denver to present our needs

AI:Relation Branch will develop a way to make it clear for relations using an annotation property (or similar) to make it clear which relations can be used at class and which can be used at instance level. This constraint is needed 

AI:BP and AR will try and develop ProtocolApplication from Plan to evaluate whether this can be done automatically

AI:Protocol and ProtocolApplication branches will be merged

AI:Produce an example a Protocol acquired into ProtocolApplication from ArrayExpress - HP

AI:RS will provide a clinical trial example of protocol

AI:HP will produce an example from ArrayExpress Protocol->ProtocolApplication

AI:How do we embed OBI in different systems - AR wants as focus of a session this week

AI:Alan will generate a list of problems and solutions with DENRI for discussion on a conference call

AI:BS will provide a better name for MeasurementUnit as Units pre-exist in the world outside data and so the name is bad.

AI:BS will provide an example of function/role that doesn't involve doubling up with role and functions

AI:Organization needs a place in the ontology, not yet determined

AI:JW will provide a link for PDBs effort to do this for beamlines

AI:Make the connection between the visulation here between table and graph that comes out of this process currently that is in the DENRI branch

AI: DT branch will consider using objective, not role for e.g. normalization - might make things easier and practical consequences will not be huge: DT branch, Protocol

AI:Role is confusing and all the discussions will be distilled by BS and AR for clarity

AI:BS will devolve organization ontology, document ontology and information entity to a new ontology in the future, these are too high level for OBI

AI:BB will send the link to his modified BirnLex SW ontology to the data transformation branch

AI:AR will post the OBO release policy document and people will offer comment on if this is a good policy for OBI
</b>
=========================================================================================
