==The Winter 2009 workshop will be February 2-6, 2009, in Vancouver==

===Agenda===

*Deliverables list:
**plan for the manuscript in place, and all sections assigned
**all core terms identified, and related issues either resolved or documented, including those involving outside ontologies
**Quick Terms proposal documented, and working first example
**Roles for dependent continuants / conferred qualities


**Vancouver workshop agenda


1. Monday 2nd - 9am to 12am and 1pm to 5pm

*Policies
**Namespace (e.g. MSI) - PRS and SAS
**Defined classes: Refine and agree on obi policy regarding prohibited assertions under defined classes: https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/DefinedClasses
**Quick ID - FG and AR (Note this is really ongoing work and not in a suitable state for comment or discussion as yet, rather this is just a heads-up that is exists http://obi-ontology.org/page/Quick_id)
**Quick term - BP and PRS

*Use cases 
**James Malone (Melanie Courtot)
**Bjoern Peters
**Jennifer Fostel
**other non-manuscript use-cases (time permitting): Susanna


2. Tuesday 3rd - 9am to 12am and 1pm to 5pm

*Core RU (branch discussion for branches that don't have core terms)
**Role - JF
**Relations - FG
**DT - JM
**DENRIE - CS


*Core RU (branch discussion for branches that don't have core terms)
**Biomaterial - MC
**Instrument
**PAPP - Function - BP and PRS

3. Wednesday 4th -  9am to 4pm (Cypress trip)

*Core RU continued 

*11am: phone conference with Barry
**news on BFO (Barry)
**Treatment of relations, defined classes, and defined qualities. (Barry/Alan)
**Roles and qualities of dependent continuants (Barry/Alan)


4. Thursday 5th - 9am to 12am and 1pm to 5pm

*Manuscript discussion (Bjoern)

*NCBO presentation (Trish)
*Neurocommons hacking session (Alan)
*VO and OBI (Oliver)
*Automated Investigations (Larisa)

=== Other possible Agenda items===

Please add proposed agenda items below. If you have any specific time constraint please use the dated slots below and add why the constraint.

* What happens next? The longer term plan for continuing OBI development.
* OBI classes into IAO and BFO
* Making the old wiki read-only and moving over to the [http://obi-ontology.org new wiki]
* define a standard procedure for communities to submit new terms to OBI (I believe this is related to the QuickTerms sub-project)
** What should the community do to facilitate the process?
** How will OBI incorporate? Who will be responsible?
** Do we need different processes for asserted vs defined classes?

===Participants===

* Ryan Brinkman
* Melanie Courtot
* Richard Scheuermann
* Alan Ruttenberg
* Bjoern Peters
* Helen Parkinson
* James Malone
* Jennifer Fostel
* Tina Boussard (2/2-2/4)
* Chris Stoeckert
* Eric Deutsch
* Trish Whetzel
* Susanna Sansone
* Philippe Rocca-Serra
* Frank Gibson
* Barry Smith (2/4-2/5)
* Larisa Soldatova

=== Schedule ===

A trip to [http://www.cypressmountain.com/index.asp Cypress] will be organized on the Wednesday evening, directly after the meeting.

A whole day trip to [http://www.whistlerblackcomb.com/index.htm Whistler] ([http://www.whistlerblackcomb.com/todo/winter/index.htm for non skiers] [http://www.tourismwhistler.com/www/things_to_do/activities/winter.asp another]) is planned on the Friday.


===Things to organize===
* Power bars
* Hotel discount code
* Cars to Cypress
* Whistler transportation
* Dinner reservations (Banana Leaf Malaysian / Cactus Club upper scale pub/ Plaza 500 west coast/ Indian Buffet / All u can eat sushi on Broadway / Memphis Blues BBQ)
* Lunch catering (kitty? Tracy's food book & delivery)
