== Logistics ==

* Back to back with 2nd OBO [http://www.obofoundry.org/wiki/index.php/OBO_Foundry_Workshop_2009 2nd OBO Foundry workshop].
* Location: EBI, Cambridge, UK, 
* Dates: June 9-12, 2009 (OBO Foundry 7-8)
* Alan notes US East-coast travel ->Dublin then Ryanair to STN may be most cost effective
* Registration closed

*Bus Timetable:*
 Sun 7th June
 Refer to [http://www.obofoundry.org/wiki/index.php/OBO_Foundry_Workshop_2009 2nd OBO Foundry workshop] agenda.

 Mon 8th June
 Refer to [http://www.obofoundry.org/wiki/index.php/OBO_Foundry_Workshop_2009 2nd OBO Foundry workshop] agenda.

 Tue 9th June
 08:00 – Cambridge Travelodge to EBI
 18:30 – EBI to Travelodge, dinner on your own (list of restaurant in the area will be added here, shortly)

 Wed 10th June
 07:50 – Cambridge Travelodge to EBI
 18:00 – EBI to Travelodge, dinner on your own (list of restaurant in the area will be added here, shortly)

 Thur 11th June
 08:00 – Cambridge Travelodge to EBI
 17:30 – EBI to Travelodge, dinner on your own (list of restaurant in the area will be added here, shortly)

 Frid 12th June
 08:15 Travelodge to EBI
 Individual or group taxis will be organized to return back to Travelodge, or train station or airports.

== Agenda ==

Below is a tentative list of possible topics [[Conference_call_developers_agenda/Minutes/Developer/2009-05-06|brainstormed]]

At the dev call on 5/27, we added more items and voted on priority for each. In parenthesis behind each subject is the number of votes for 'we need to talk about this'. This is just meant as a first stab for prioritization (only 6 call participants, maybe insufficient knowledge on what some subjects would entail + several subjects seem to overlap). Here are the results, reordered by vote priority: 

* Where are we now and what can we presently do with OBI (specifically what use cases do we now fulfill)? (6)
** Manuscript status
** Is OBI ready for release 1.0? If not what is needed. 

* Use cases and first release (6)
** How are we evaluating that a use case is solved? 
** How are we evaluating our competency questions, what are our competency questions? If we have no evaluation process how do we know we have completed a case-study and can present a use-case and the ontology is of scientific importance in order to publish a paper on it?

* Splitting into smaller focus groups to resolve issues: (6)
** Parameter (if not resolved before then)
** Addressing the OBI development process, case-study, model case-study, evaluate model, present use-case
** Split up into groups to address a specific case-study and work through the development process

* OBI release process (6)
** Hasn't happened for a while. How do we address this going forward. 

* External ontology coordination. Status, issues, actions (6)
** review of IEDB OWL export/ IEDB-OBI coordination
** IAO-OBI coordination
** Jie report on checking that MGED terms are in OBI or other OBO foundry ontologies
** Status of Vaccine ontology/OBI coordination
** Status of Immune Epitope ontology/OBI coordination

*Development process (5)
There is a clear methodology to apply when building ontologies. In brief, this involves stating the 1)Goals - whats the point? 2)The scope, by defining competency question the ontology should ask. 3)This is followed by an evaluation process to determine if we have been able to answer our questions.
** What is the goal of OBI?
** What are the OBI competency questions?
** How are we evaluating that we have answered the competency questions?

Only after this process can we determine if OBI is of any benefit and does what it is mean to do. Only after following a process like this can we have confidence in writing a paper and making the statement, OBI is a contribution to science and deserves a publication.

* Working through individual use cases (5)
** Gene Pattern Use Case - close to being able to completely represent this now
** Neuroscience Use Case - Dirk
** IEDB use case - Bjoern
** Vaccine Ontology use case - Oliver

* Status and progress per branch (5)

* Moving quickterms/quickid into production (5)

* Funding opportunities (5)

*OBI Organizational structure (5)
** The current separation into community coordinators and editors may have outlived its usefulness. There should be a ~ 1 hour brainstorming session to discuss a revised organizational structure. This should result in a draft document to be further discussed on the coord list.

* Documenting OBI (4)

* OBI distributions (3)

* Using OWL 2 features in OBI (3)

* Working with MIREOT (3)

* Software demos (0)
** [http://isatab.sourceforge.net/tools.html ISACreator demo]

* Interation with EnVO (0)
** Discussion to be done on Wed as Norman will only attend that day.

== Confirmed attendees ==
* Susanna Sansone
* Philippe Rocca-Serra
* Alan Ruttenberg
* Bjoern Peters
* Frank Gibson
* Larisa Soldatova
* Yongqunh
* Jie Zheng
* Melanie Courtot
* Dirk Derom
* Phil Lord
* Norman Morrison 
* Barry Smith
* Richard Scheuermann
