== DetailedNotesJul6 ==
Tina, Bjoern,Helen,Susanna,James, Alan
Biomaterial Call notes: 06 July 2007
Terms now imported. Under bionmaterial, all terms and no structure
BP:switch between truly biomaterial as in natural organism, bits, proteins and switch away experimental artefacts. Under natural then things that are not outr scope, but mapping works from here.
HP:seems clean
AR:all stuff in natural side should be mappable elsewhere
org_part, organism, organism_status, in vivo biomaterial, Tina, thought we would split org status into a role.
AA: split this, added as an editor note
In parallel we do exp. artefact
cell_pellet,
biological macromolecule - defintion needs a tweak to define in natural
suspension - intended to be the natural kind
There are two organisms, difft OBI ids, is a bug.
BP:could be an import error
AR:could be was already there and got put in again.
AA:resolve dupl. orgs
AA. Population - to be decided if natural can include e.g. a KO or not
AA.strain, same problem with inbred
AR: natural, composite, or syntehtic - inbetween class could work. These are e.g.s of in betweeners. population.
Emulsion same issues
Ecotype - natural, mult inheritance possibly?
PBS - experimental, not a biomaterial,
BP:we have chebi objects
HP:can be material, and biomaterial
AR:redundancy?
Cell, natural, - could be snythetic
syn_polp -exp
transgenic_organism, exp
whole_mount - exp
chebi objects
solution
serotype - natural
genetic_modification - is it a thing or a process
display_library - artifical
lsyate - what about when get viral lysis?
individual - problem
haplotype - quality
genotype - quality
diplotype - quality, left alone, should have been in SO.
BAL - exp
cDNA - exp
cell_supernatant -
cohort - role
biosourceprovider - role, organization
serum, natural but getting it is experimental
plasma, "
organ_section " - alone, always an experimental artefact -
AA. xenograft - new term, HP will define do offline
AA. chimera - new term, HP will define do offline
libray - exp
liquid_chemical_solution
allele - role
unicellular_org - natural

BP:alternate grouping chemical soln, mol mixture,PBS, all are like definition of material some kind of aggregates, or composites. These can be exp or natural. SOme are pure parts e.g. chemicals, have that as an alternate split, mixtures, vs. unit
SS:if under exp material, experimentally created or transformed material.
PATO will have exp quality and also a natural quality
SS:we can split the material from the biomaterial
BP:don't know how to proceed now.. Not clear what Susanna said. is there a change we need to make
SS:you wanted to split, is that correct?
SS:split buffers vs. biological.
AR:e.g. serum is that biological or experimental
SS:exp, but is biological
AR:but then is boh
BP:natl vs exp might not be the best split.
BP:soln, mol mix are the same kinds of things, group together with emulsion, suspension, liquid_chemical_soln and PBS. PBS is-a liquid chemical solution
AA:there are 2 viruses in the OWL file. One needs removing
Cell_culture - experimental
AR:shall we group the parts of things - org part, org section
SS:immortal cell under experimental
Individual is this a synonym for organism. Is an identifier for an instance in an experimental setting.
AR:genotype is a quality -
HP:is notation for a mutation that is a variant of stuff
AR:not saying that genotypes don't belong in single inheritance fit in pATO
HP:needs to be biologically useful, single inheritance isn't how biology works
BP:can it be on a gene or a whole genome?
AR:needs to considered by whole branch
BP:put a new group genetic information content, allele, genotype etc gop under it.
HP:in any case we need a mapping to these things even if not in OBI
BP:organisms, genes etc have GeneticInformation and these are children of genetic information
AA:individual - now needs to be under to be discussed.
organism_status - pre-mortem, post-mortem, - that's an organism quality.
BP:could be going in sample annotation
SS:alive and dead are qualities in pato -
HP:keep org_status - that needs to come from pato need a mapping point
AR:can define classes as defined classes, live organisms, defined class of organism and pato quality alive.
TB:Susanna are you planning to present the problems?
SS:missed that, was focussing on the open part
TB:rbinging up the discussion points useful, where we are in the branch, what we want to bring up at the workshop.
Tues am. Agenda - update of development status for branches
HP:suggest we at least talk about the branches.
SS:we could point at specific problems we have been encountering
TB:genetic info content - e.g. discuss what we need etc, BS will have an opinionl. Better to hear this earlier.
SS:apart from tbe genetic terms,
HP:synthetic vs natural, that this is not clean
BP:mention the protocol application things. cell line, cell culture - linkage between process and material - passage no, org from which cell line was derived. Interbranch relationships.
HP:should we stop at this point
BP:not happy with the structure, people will tear it apart. Either don't look at structure, or we spend some more time on this. SS:if you agree, I suggest to bring the file up, and asy is preliminary, bring up these and fill it in. Hp:Bjoern if you have ideas do it. I will see if I can motivate Alan. BP will arrive on Weds am. AR: will be there on Sunday night. AR and BP want to strcuture it some more. AR hoping would be some slots of work time to do things there. BP;may send an email of high order structure that I would like. AR:I can also send some notes. AA:put OBi ids, and check in. HP:If I send the defs this pm can you put them in? AR:yes.

==DetailedNotes28Jun==
Detailed BioMaterial Call Notes 28 June 2007
Bjoern Peters, Tina Boussard, Alan Ruttenberg, Susanna Sanonse, James Malone, Helen Parkinson.
Biomaterial Call
BP, Alan did you edit the working version? Were those yours?
AR:not made edits to the google docs
BP:did someone modify on the call? Anyway I started from it and I have a final version, and I have added that.
BP:goal was to provide the OWL file, got files from Susanna, Jennifer's file wasn't quite what wanted
SS:I reposted what she sent
BP:Not in shape that we can post it
HP:should have happened that we sent this
BP:Start with JF_final
Line 6 - SS will edit the doc while we talk.
Many are qualities, some are horrible
BP:Want to go through this
AR:suggest a col where could go.
HP:suggest that we add a col and say out scope, let Jennifer sort these
SS:where;s immortalized?
BP:immortalized cell was in sheet
SS:was discussing fix cells, and could go in PATO - exp created quality - could have a different root in PATO
BP:immortalized is in, as cancer cells not nec exp
BP:Primary - HP: in CTO? AA:to check if primary etc are in
HP:what is a cell strain?
BP: I had cell strain, why duplication
SS:def and source the same. She has all the CEBS, she's the right person to do that
BP:Cell strain - is like where they are derived from, is covered
BP:do we have org strain anywhere?
TB:has org strain,
AR:is a subclass
BP:we need to add strain specific terms
AR:strain rather than organism, or cell
BP:we need this Alan is it OK for organism strain
AR:personal favour for BP OK
AA:we added it and we'll come back to it
FetalStatus - should not be included at all by this definition
Death status, remove.
AR:it;s clear what she's doing here, and we need a cookbook for translate into OBI. She's reflecting her data model.
HP:this has been an ongoing problem with CEBS. More productive here to map to all repositories
HP:Organ_section - we have organ part - this covers it. Is this a section provided by a process. Parts of organs and parts of organisms -
BP:organism_section made by sectioning
AR:is a defined term
HP:whole_mount ?
BP:org sample prep as a process
AR:is an aggregate, and not the whole thing is not a part
BP:is a former part for section.
Organ_part is in scope. We need a general term that includes whole org prep and
whole_organism - BP - crap, typically needed.
HP:retain whole_org as a synonym
Cell pellet we keep - process, supernatant - we have cell supernatant
SS:specimen_pool - no.
HP:checked population, did Susanna have mixture?
SS:mixture - had a type of - should have a parent mixture
HP:we've learned learn that the sheet should have been merged and these terms checked before sending to Bjoern
AR:what does a mixture of specimens need?
HP:I will do the things in scope for Jennifer.
BP:Susanna's sheet nothing to discuss
BP:final version Rows 3-16. Biomaterial term lis goes to other branches
Final sheet, liquid chemical sol, changed purely that editor things for myself, and there's no source, we can add or remove as needed. Added a few examples. I merged one or two terms, that were the same by 2 communities
HP:question re merging?
BP: artificially_engineered_material and construct - bad primary class name -
HP:did these get remained as synomyms.
BP:in case of virus, was identical
HP:just a point about retaining synomyms in general to allow back mapping later
BP:also moved comments to editor notes
HP:any probs that want to look at?
19. protein_fragment -
AR:part of a protein?
BP:not if I make it
AR:name is bad should be synthetic peptide, and def is bad
BP:not sure about this, not only when synthesize it- might detect it in e.g. mass spec - peptide vs protein ?
HP:if it;s 40 with posttranslational modifications, is it still a peptide?
AR:def doesn't make it clear but is in scope
BP:peptide vs. protein fragment are synonyms here
AR:detect by mass spec
BP:when refer to something 'part of protein' derived from protein, or made it yourself
HP:if you made it then it's an artificially engineered biomaterial
BP:want to link to a say it's an enzyme - and want to say it's synthetic
HP:to say it's an enzyme is a catalytic siet BP:want to say it's same function as whole protein as
AR:that's different - statement for a function
HP:is this a proxy_for?
No.
AR;peptide may have same function as the protein
BP:gave a bad e.g. was supposed to linlk partial sequence of whole protein, or synth or detect now want to say can be derived from a whole protein - 'derived -from'
AR:if not derived from, or synth should be part of the same class
HP: I would split them
AR:agree, natl products not in scope of OBI
SS:we have constructed from, different from derived_from
BP:consenus to split, maybe merge later - hard to disinguish between synth and natural side by side
AA:synthetic or nat occuring not something easy to split and often used side by side.
SS:also what happened in pato - natural and artficial will be separated.
AR:no need to split it - synthetic vs derived from natural
usage model determibe whether we have 2 classes.
BP:puts in synth polypeptide as a child of artifically_engineered_material
Natural one is derived from protein - may not be a class -
BP:fragment_derived_from protein - same def as before pretty much.
All done for BP's sheet. All other terms OK and in original intent. May be discussions later ob
SS:In othr sheet, are these in the dispatcher file, OK?
BP:Will upload my version of this file.
SS:I can help next week putting into protege.
HP:to provide terms in same format as the final sheet.
SS:we could structure it next week in protege
HP:will try and do this pm, depends if Susanna can get the notes out tonight
JM:batchloader works now.
AR:leaves.

==DetailedNotesJun22==
BioMaterial Call
Bjoern, Alan, Philippe, Trish, Tina, James, Susanna, Helen
Sarting with Susanna's terms, probs in yellow
fixed_cell - PATO - fixed quality in PATO?
purified - also checking with PATO?
need a process for purification
living cell - alive is in PATO, cell - root node for cell type
Discussion woth Chris and George, suggest we keep compound terms, and they keep the atomic. Bit confusing.
TW:Are OBO compound terms, are these cross product? Yes apparently, In OBO they allow cross products, in OWL these can be build up with necessary and sufficient.
AR:As no formal reln on OBO they called it cross products, not so in OBI, so we can do with OWL
Questions on: Solid, gas, liquid, - PATO - solidity/gaseous. We also need to record that there is a GAS.
Need to make reln between what is solid, e.g. water.
DO we need this in OB
AR No BP:yes
PRS:in cell culture, specifcy the gases, or proportion of gases
TW:need to specify the compound, and then say what the state is
AR:there will be parts of the environment
Discussion on whether the gas itself is needed.
AR:we need gas and substance, we should change the definition.
BP:Qu - gas, liquid, solid, - dofft way of slpiting the hierarchy different from how chebi would do. What types of high level nodes do we need.
AR:will lead to mult inheritance
BP:yes, but we want to get the high level nodes and limit taht we don't include blood
SS:thing right, the def by PSI - all tehy want to do is id the state - sample is liquid - PATO quality sufficinent. AND we may need to say this is a gas. If we only need to do what PSI want - then this is fine. Happy to do that.
AR:let someone resubmit the term if they really want it.
Susanna has no more questions on her terms.
SS:looking at the dispatcher file?
HP:has anyone else we got defs for terms we care about
PRS:molecular mixture - puzzled. A combination of two or more compounds. Def prepared by MO, was about related.
AA:HP to check on the original MO use of mixture
PRS:solution, got roles, solute, solvent - these need to go to role
Susanna, talked about substance, not chemical, need to cross check
TB:got PBS - role, and material
SS:we need to review these to see if they are consistent
BP:we seem to have duplicates as well
PRS:PBS - 4 components, proportions, id solutes and solvents - lot of work for dealing with PBS. This is the way to go.
There's a more grabnular model and then gfrab PBNS after it's classified
TB;salmon sperm - biological fluid - DNA carrier - is a role.
PRS:salmon sperm - species plus organism part and plus role - DNA carrier
TB:status - alive/dead - PATO
TB:org_part - part of the organisms anatomy or derived from biomaterial
HP:think I would split into what's a part and what's derived
BP:looking forward to high level structure
SS:in dispatcher term, some terms not assigned to branches, or external. back to checking these.
BP:sequence ontology workshop, all taken care in SO. All the parts of antigenic molecules
SS:ions, 41-43 - from PSI and chebi etc. PSI was not to submit all now. Wanted to plug in later.
SS:branch terms, we need to assign people to taking these to other branches
AA AR:takes reln branch terms SS will note these into a file.
AA TW:will take instrument branch terms
AA SS: will senf to Jennider
AA SS:cell line ontology will do
AA TB:disease ontology
AA: AR suggests send CARO to Chris M
Discussion on need for follow up and what to give to other branches and what the workload to do this is.
PRS: I put on the google all the PATO
SS: I am not using the google.
PRS: I did all the mapping to all the other ontologies
SS: so is this file out of date
PRS: I checked which terms were in unit, pato, cell line etc
BP: add to status
SS:also the current file has, need to check which is more up to date, Reason to assign to diff branches is to deal with one person does it and fields the question.
AR:we are middle men and we maybe should be refering to the originator
TB:but that person doesn't know history
BP:needs to be us who does it, not easy
TB:we need to send them out so we at least move forard.
AA: PRS/AA will make one single dispatcher file
AA: Philippe to send aroung the link info, and check the google account email and link to the google calendar
AR:leaves
TB:leaves
SS:suggest that we assign an editor
BP:agree, but priorities need to be elsewhere. Clear that for my time want to work no on dispatcher files.
PRS:cam we go back to defs
SS:we agreed to do this onwly where there are problems
BP:will do the OBI OWL file, need to remove redundancy, needs def and example and seems to still be redundant.
AA:all to clean up the files for Bjoern
HP:in the google files or not?
TW: if mult people are editing then googkle better
HP:what's your preference Bjoern
BP:need it in a week. Suggest we use a wiki for that. Next Wednesday deadline for these - 29th
AA: all to send cleaned up list of terms with def and with example by Weds next week 27 June.
SS:want a structure?
BP:no need, easier to do in OWL
SS:simply full list of terms then
BP: asks Trish, way for us to look at protege file via centra.
TW:GF invited all branch leaders to centra
TW:ignore date, all people on email can be a presented.
BP:should try on centra
AA:all install centra which now supprts macs - need to preinstall for macs to use next week.
TW:is a standing meeting, so can log in at any time.

==Describe DetailedNotesJune8 here.==
Helen, James, Bjoern
Susanna will edit the file if there are call comments and will save it again.
1. Allele - recessive - HP will look these up in PATO George 2. biomaterial_purity - HP to check with George, agree with generic

BP do we have a good definition of what biomaterial is vs. material 'Any material in scope is a biomaterial and is in scope' better definition needed then for material and biomaterial
BioMetrics - removed OrganismPart now includes cell
BP agrees.
Question on whether has to be in part of the whole? BP requires this
HP:could be either in my view
HP:take point - 3 cases - hand/arm example
BP:can consider work with as part of the organism and then quality for derived from, - or call it sample, and then sample 'derived from tail'
HP:cell_lysate - are there other types of lysate -> lysate term.
SS:didn't thinkabout removing cell, also found sub classes - whole lysate, cell free lysate.
AA:SS will put these on her sheet.
BP:did we submit lysing to process - might be useful.
BP:two typos on rows 13 and 15.
HP:that's all the comments I had.
BP:didn't do the others right. And lots of redundancy
HP:is there anything else on the agenda
SS:have two terms, not problems, looking for possible subclass- lipid emulsion - dispersed phase vs., continuous phase. Should we get the possible child terms.
HP:good to make a note of these terms.
PRS:looked at cell lysate and extract in group 4 should all be grouped
BP:I thought I had all the cell terms
SS:was supposed to be
BP:we can merge them.
HP:mult people doing defintions doesn't hurt
BP:did we id any relations>
HP:the one that you just mentioned 'derived_from'. Is this generic - e.g. derives from an organism or data from data.
BP:was defined originally for developmental biology
PRS:what are the bearers of the relation, continuant and processes? E.g. structure - can something derive from a process?
BP:materialTransformation in P/A haev output derived from input Sampl outout cellsep process, imput is tail of a mouse - tail of a mouse was derived from the mouse.
PRS:do we need a type - derives from a process
HP:these are subtypes of derives from
PRS:process/continuant bearers could be different
BP:hoping could work with a single derived from relationship
AA:PRS will post qu to the relation branch about this
SS:request on ProtocolApplication page example on branch page would be good, even if is text
BP:on P/A branch still not in good shape
BP:shows proxy_for relationships - in the processes - measuring cell killing - really measuring radioactivity
HP:don't find this useful - al science is an artefact

BP:I believe the cell culture is T cells, work at level that is X tube, with x media HP:don't get the point,
BP:biomaterial is a cell culture for 4 weeks, missing the point that the sample is a tumour in the patient so that can relate these things together. Proxy for is sim to derived cells,
HP:how is that different from derived from -
BP:always derived from, proxy for gives you something extra - tells you that you believe is there.
HP:unconvinced.
SS:if it works, then we can use it.
SS:we are 30 mins in, unless people have other things, suggest we do the rest o of the terms
JM:on dt call we will create a doc similar to the one Daniel did.
SS:open to a way that we can report to the group
BP:good idea to do that could do before the call
JM:also summary of what has been done etc.
SS:happy to do before the call.
HP:could we do that well before the call please.
SS:will circulate on Monday 18th June before 20th/
SS:if you want to keep editing this file Helen then you are leading editor of this file.
SS:Tina and Philippe were happy to get terms. HP:If Jennifer can't do hers then we need to know asap.
Philippe gets: environmental_sample - mol mixture
Tina: Organism through whole organism.
Both to edit the sheet.

==DetailedNotes==
Describe DetailedNotes here.
Complete Notes for BioMaterial Branch call 1 June 2007
Present: Helen, Susanna, Bjoern, Tina,
Summary:
1. We will divide up the biomaterial file and assign rows by source or choice to people. - Susanna will do this and post. People will get what they submitted where possible. 2. BP wants lines 85-93, 53, 38-39, 82-83, 34, 16 3. We will each do defs, suggest a class 4. These will then be reviewed on subsequent calls esp. if problematic - non contentious things need not be discussed first 5. Aim to have a sheet with defs, classes etc and hierarchy to make an OWL file by the workshop.


Susanna explained how dt group had divided by rows, assigned to people, review defs and suggest heirarchy, harmonise to naming conventions.
How does this sound to the others. Susanna, Bjoern what do you think? Can we do it all on the call?
BP:would really like to do it all on the call.
SS:only 5 calls till the workshop
BP:throught main point was to do an OWL heirarchy, need to do relative to each other
TB:is working for dt at least
BP:adv of moving to OWL there's at least something
SS:hard to do things in the OWL file
BP;do we have a google file
SS:not yet, no password Philippe is not here
BP:worked well for P/App, sent to mailing list and all could see it
SS:will sort out for next week.
BP:should focus on the hierarchy in the calls
We agree.
HP:suggest sort by source for the assignment
BP:we sorted already - we need to resolve the redundancy though
HP:yes
TB:all terms next to each other, will need to merge these
Look at the source, if terms identical from one source then will be assigned to each other
BP:if something not clear then dumpt it for now.
MO/CEBS/IED/PSI/MIACA etc
MO/AE - Helen IED - Bjoern CEBS - Jen PSI - Susanna PharmGKB - Tina will also review in second round other's definition
HP:should generate a std format for a definition
e.g. for dt we have data in, data out -> example
HP:min case we already need an example, an example is like an instance or child concept of the class

AA:All to post the files that we have done.
HP:SUggest that we make a small table to show these
SS:re dispatcher files - when we submit these are we as OBI?
HP:yes for SO terms that James did
SS:we should be able to do the terms to other resources and get through the terms in 5 weeks
BP:Can we do this by next week?
SS:review the terms and put in hierarchy?
SS:aim to get all the definitions by next week is the aim TB:for dt - everyone did their defs and we only talked about things that were straighforward
SS:implies that we should read the definitions by the call?
TB:yes
SS:we will take a couple of calls to get through these
BP:want to get to OWL
SS:do you want to on SS or in OWL, my view is on SS
BP:only concern is that we do the hierarchy even if on s/sheet
SS:if we agree then for the final call we can do it OWL
BP:from protocol application we need the owl file - as we need relns to cells for e.g. cell_sorting
SS:will be hard to understand what each branch has done, then at workshop we can do that at the workshop
BP:P/appl though is defined by other things.
SS:OK we will do our best then - BP is volunteered to create the OWL file.
SS:anything else to discuss?
BP:Assignment of terms - shall we go through now.
SS:will do when I sort
BP:assigned the following 85-93, 53, 38-39, 82-83, 34, 16

SS:do want also the IED, transgenic_organism
BP:this is a mess, 53-54, 107-108 some redundancy still.
SS:will deal with these. We can always have mult definitions.
HP:helps to have people to bounce these off encourage people to mail each other.
