==Biomaterial Branch Term Repository==

[[ Conference calls Biomaterial 2008|<<back to notes and summaries of each call ]]

'''Excel files in reverse chronological order'''

(''please name the files as 'biobranch' then add 'ante' and the date of the call<code> original file discussed at the call; OR 'post' and the date of the call</code> file(s) produced following the call; PLUS your initials. E.g. biobranch''ante''9March07''SAS''PRS.xls. Here also add a brief desciption of what you have 
done/changed'')

<br>
== 14 December 2007 Call ==
I had a look at the biomaterial branch and here is the file containing my first comments [[Media:Biobranchante14December07MC.txt]]

== 8, 15, 22, 29 June, 2007 Calls ==

1) In the June 1st call, we have divided up the biomaterial file and assigned rows by source or choice to people. [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_01June07_SAS.xls Main Post 1 June 2007 call file ] 

2) The original individual files are listed here, along with the those with revised definitions, examples and preliminary hierarchy:

{| border="1"
|+ '''Latest Branch Terms'''
! Terms to be defined !! Working versions !! Final list of terms, definitions, examples/children!! Combined list for Protege!!
|-
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G1_post_01June07.xls Post 1 June 2007 - GROUP 1 AR BP]
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G1_post_01June08_AR_BP.xls AR and BP working version]
| [https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/images/d/db/Biobranch_G1_postJune29_BP-corrected.xls BP final version]
|-
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G2_post_01June07.xls Post 1 June 2007 - GROUP 2 TB HP PRS]
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G2_post_01June07_HP_TB_PRS.xls  HP, TB and PRS working version]
|
|-
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G3_post_01June07.xls Post 1 June 2007 - GROUP 3 JF]
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G3_post_01June07_JF.xls  JF working version]
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G3_post_01June07_JF.xls  JF final]
|-
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G4_post_01June07.xls Post 1 June 2007 - GROUP 4 SAS]
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G4_post_01June07_SAS.xls SAS working version]
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_G4_final_terms_SAS.xls SAS final]
|-
| 
| 
| 
| [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/Biobranch_Combined-Jul-07.xls Biomaterial-July-07-COMBINED]
|}


<br/>
Term list which will be moved into OWL file: https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/images/e/e5/Biobranch_Combined.xls 
<br>
3) The dispatcher files is available as a [http://docs.google.com/ Google Spreadsheet dispatcher-from-biomaterial]; here below we keep track of responsabilities and the status 

{| border="1"
|
! Other OBI branches or External resources (editor) !! Status!!
|-
| OBI relation branch (Alan)
| ?
|
|-
| OBI protocol application branch (Bjorn)
| Done
|
|-
| OBI plan branch (Philippe)
| ?
| 
|-
| OBI instrument branch (Trish, Frank)
| ?
| 
|-
| OBI role branch (Jennifer)
| ?
|
|-
| Unit Ontology (Susanna)
| ?
|
|-
| PATO Ontology (Susanna)
| Done, comments in Dispatcher file
|
|-
| Cell Line Ontology (Susanna)
| ?
|
|-
| Clinical Inv Ontology (Jennifer)
| ?
|
|-
| Environmental Ontology (Norman)
| ?
|
|-
| Disease Ontology (Tina)
| ?
|
|-
| CARO/FMA Ontology (Bjorn)
| ?
|
|-
| SO/ChEBI Ontology (Helen, James)
| SO Done. Chebi awaiting feedback.
|
|-
| GO Ontology (Helen)
| No terms to be added to GO, some were checked for presence and this was confirmed on calls.
|}

<br>

== 25 May, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_25May07_PRS.xls Post 25th May 2007 call]: 

1) file containing only the terms relevant for the biomaterial branch (edited by Philippe) 

2) and a [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/Dispatcher-From-Biomaterial_PRS_SAS.xls Dispatcher file] inlcuding terms to be submitted to other OBI branches or external resources(edited by Philippe, Susanna)

== 11 May, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_11May07_HP-SAS.xls Post 11th May 2007 call]: 

1) terms for other branches or ontology (nearly) sorted, second sheet cleaned up (edited by Helen and Susanna)

== 13 April, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_13April07_SAS.xls Post 13th Apr 2007 call]: 

1) terms by Ryan (flow cytometry) and Tina sorted, sheet cleaned up (edited by Susanna)

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_ante_13April07_SAS.xls Ante 13th Apr 2007 call]: 

1) terms by Ryan (flow cytometry) added; <br>
2) sheet cleaned up (edited by Susanna)

== 23 March, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_23March07_SAS.xls Post 23th Mar 2007 call]: <br>
1)terms by Stefan (MIACA) sorted under ~BioMaterial and others (edited by Susanna)

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_ante_23March07_SAS.xls Ante 23th Mar 2007 call]: <br>
1)added terms submitted by Tina (Polim) and those Stefan (MIACA)'s terms listed as ~BioMaterial (excluding those under 'project description' and 'instrument')(edited by Susanna)

== 16 March, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_16March07_SAS.xls Post 16th Mar 2007 call]: <br>
1) added another column with comments made during the call; <br>
2) some terms have been moved to the worksheet contaning terms for others branches or to be submitted to other ontologies  (edited by Susanna)

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_ante_16March07_LM.xls Ante 16th Mar 2007 call]: <br>

1) discussed PSI ion terms with Trish, Puneet, Helen, Susanna and Daniel and decided to point to PSI for these (then PSI will cross ref with PATO or ChEBI) (edited by Luisa)

== 9 March, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_post_9March07_PRS_SAS.xls Post 9th Mar 2007 call] <br>
1)added a column with comments made during the call; <br> 
2) some related terms have been grouped for further discussions (duplicated terms are still there, to keep track of the needs expressed by more than one community); <br>
3) in black bold face, those areas requiring additional discussion; <br>
3) ref: 'Purity', this really sounds like a quality with an associated measurement (90% pure or contaminated with 10 % neutrphiles), keeping this here seems to be inconsistent with other properties being moved to PATO such as 'Mass' for instance <br>
2) all entries to be moved to others branches or submitted to other ontologies have been moved in a different worksheet (edited by Philippe) <br>

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~sansone/FuGO/biobranch_ante_9March07_SAS_PRS.xls Ante 9th Mar 2007 call]: <br>
Worksheets added, terms sorted by relevance to this branch (edited by Philippe, Susanna)

== 2 March, 2007 ==

[http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~parkinso/biomaterialterms-after-call.xls Post 2nd Mar 2007 call]: <br>
initial list if terms collated, grey lines are not in biomaterial scope according to last call (edited by Helen)


[[category:Conference calls]]
