==The Winter 2009 workshop will be February 2-6, 2009, in Vancouver==

===Venue===
British Columbia Cancer Research Center (BCCRC)
675 West 10th Avenue
Vancouver, BC
V5Z 1L3, Canada

For conference calling, call the number 6047074539, using password 777888#.

===Agenda===

*Deliverables list:
**plan for the manuscript in place, and all sections assigned
**all core Representational Units (RUs) identified, and related issues either resolved or documented, including those involving outside ontologies
**Quick Terms proposal documented, and working first example
**Roles for dependent continuants / conferred qualities


**Vancouver workshop agenda


1. Monday 2nd - 9am to 12am and 1pm to 5pm

*Policies
**Namespace (e.g. MSI) - PRS and SAS
***'''OBI/Feb 2''' -  Policy accepted as proposed by PRS&SAS
***'''PRS/Feb 2''' - Submit slides to OBI documentation in docs folder under  svn DONE
***'''AR/Feb 9''' - Will come up with a way to say “original definition” , change note includes original definition. Dated/editorwill be submitted to OBI Foundry through proposal for IAO metadata 
***'''AR&PRS/Feb 9''' -  Will fix the way we do dbxref
***'''MC/Feb 9'''  - Make and edit to Policy document that editors will add date of edit, add imported definition goes in the note when adding new definitions
**Defined classes: Refine and agree on obi policy regarding prohibited assertions under defined classes: https://wiki.cbil.upenn.edu/obiwiki/index.php/DefinedClasses
***'''MC/Feb 9''' -  Edit to OBI policy page: Nothing is asserted under defined class in released OBI. For development class can do this, but cannot be tagged as “ready for release”. Summary: Nothing that is tagged “ready for release” can be asserted under a defined class.
***'''MC/Feb 9''' - Add sentence to wiki Things with necessary and sufficient conditions blah blah blah

**Quick ID - FG and AR (Note this is really ongoing work and not in a suitable state for comment or discussion as yet, rather this is just a heads-up that is exists http://obi-ontology.org/page/Quick_id)
***'''FG/TBD''' - Will condense QuickID doc to a summary page to make appealing once policy is finished
**Quick term - BP and PRS
***'''PRS/Feb 2''' - Share slides onto OBI documentation resource in svn under docs folder DONE
***'''OBI/Feb 2''' - Adopt PRS proposal for a template for analyte measuring assay
***'''PRS&PL/March 2''' - Data entry form mechanism - Will make spreadsheet or Protege plugin or MediaWiki or GoogleDocs or emailing text file or Protege ppl. Assay is priority for end users & as showcase for manuscript
***'''PRS&PL/March 2''' - Will write script to process templates 
***'''?/?'''  - Need new relation for proxy_for

*Use cases 
**James Malone (Melanie Courtot)
***'''JM/Feb 3''' - Share GenePattern use case slides in svn under docs folder
***'''JM/Feb 9''' - Planned_specification -> Workflow_Specification -> GenePattern_Workflow_Specification (includes specific file formats required for GenePattern) as a defined class
**Bjoern Peters
***'''BP/Feb 3''' - Share slides through svn in docs folder DONE
**Jennifer Fostel
***'''JP/Feb 3''' - Share slides through svn in docs folder DONE
** Arrays and Designs  - PRS/SAS
***'''PRS/Feb 3''' - Share slides through svn in docs folder DONE


**Variables discussion
***'''BP/Feb 6''' - Add in results of the variables discussion to OBI. DONE (by someone else, in IAO). 
2. Tuesday 3rd - 9am to 12am and 1pm to 5pm
*[[http://bananaleaf-vancouver.com/menu.html lunch]] Send tasty selections to rbrinkman@bccrc.ca
* Eric Deutsch - 30 minutes presentation/discussion: addition of terms from the proteomics/mass spectrometry community
**'''ED/Feb4''' share slides on OBI svn in docs folder
**'''FG&ED&PRS/Feb 4'''  Do quick term binning - Done: discussed with Eric how to proceed by binning MS terms under basic BFO hierarchy

*Core RU (branch discussion for branches that don't have core representational units)
**Role - JF
**Relations - FG
***'''FG/Feb  4''' Upload slides with notes taken during workshop to svn/docs - Done
**DT - JM
***'''JM/Feb  4''' Upload slides with notes taken during workshop to svn/docs
**DENRIE - CS
**'''AR&BP/Feb 9''' - IAO Cage fight

*Core RU (branch discussion for branches that don't have core <s>terms</s>)
**Variable/Parameters
**Biomaterial - MC
**Instrument -FG
***'''FG/Feb  4''' Upload slides with notes taken during workshop to svn/docs Done
**PAPP - Function - BP and PRS
***'''AR/Feb 4''' Fix action specification 
***'''BP&JF&MC/Feb 7''' - Protocol application goes away and all other suggested changes DONE
***'''BP/Feb  4''' Upload slides with notes taken during workshop to svn/docs DONE

3. Wednesday 4th -  9am to 4pm (Cypress trip)

* We are not in Kansas anymore - Room change to Jon Jambor room BCCA (across the street turn right go down long hall and leave breadcrumbs)

*Core RU continued 

*11am: phone conference with Barry
**news on BFO (Barry)
**Treatment of relations, defined classes, and defined qualities. (Barry/Alan)
**Roles and qualities of dependent continuants (Barry/Alan)


4. Thursday 5th - 9am to 12am and 1pm to 5pm

*Manuscript discussion (Bjoern)

* Tools and Projects - 30 minutes max for presentation (20 minutes presentation - 10 minutes discussion)
**NCBO presentation (Trish)
**Neurocommons hacking / reasoning with OBI session (Alan)
**OBI release - how to access it and where (MC-AR and discussion with all)
*** How to let people flexibly use OBI -> multiple releases
(1)OBI:Core (don't touch under pain of chastisement unless approved by OBI CC)

(2)OBI:Full Everything tagged: ready for release 
 
(3)OBI_devel (OBI:Crap) – what is in subversion doesn't get released. Use at your own peril.
 
(4)OBI:Custom - Users can edit #imports and roll their own OBI terms
***'''?/?''' - Need to avoid all asserted classes making it into release version (from PRS template for Assay proposal
**VO and OBI (Oliver)
**Automated Investigations (Larisa)
**Collaboratice Protege (James)
**time permitting: protege experimental writer (Alan), OCRe - http://rctbank.ucsf.edu/home/ocre.html

=== Other possible Agenda items===

Please add proposed agenda items below. If you have any specific time constraint please use the dated slots below and add why the constraint.

* What happens next? The longer term plan for continuing OBI development.
* OBI classes into IAO and BFO
* Making the old wiki read-only and moving over to the [http://obi-ontology.org new wiki]
* define a standard procedure for communities to submit new terms to OBI (I believe this is related to the QuickTerms and QuickID sub-project)
** What should the community do to facilitate the process?
** How will OBI incorporate? Who will be responsible?
** Do we need different processes for asserted vs defined classes?

===Participants===

* Ryan Brinkman
* Melanie Courtot
* Richard Scheuermann
* Alan Ruttenberg
* Bjoern Peters
* Helen Parkinson
* James Malone
* Jennifer Fostel
* Chris Stoeckert
* Eric Deutsch
* Trish Whetzel (2/4 - 2/6)
* Susanna Sansone
* Philippe Rocca-Serra
* Frank Gibson
* Larisa Soldatova
* Oliver He
* Philip Lord

=== Schedule ===

A trip to [http://www.cypressmountain.com/index.asp Cypress] will be organized on the Wednesday evening, directly after the meeting.

A whole day trip to [http://www.whistlerblackcomb.com/index.htm Whistler] ([http://www.whistlerblackcomb.com/todo/winter/index.htm for non skiers] [http://www.tourismwhistler.com/www/things_to_do/activities/winter.asp another]) is planned on the Friday.


Whistler transportation

[[http://www.greyhound.ca Greyhound is the best way to go]]
You want to travel from Vancouver to Whistler village (or Creekside)
You probably want the 6:30 am ride up to get there for when the mountain opens at 8:30
The mountain closes at 3:30, so the 4;30 gets you back downtown at 7




===Things to organize===
* Power bars
* Hotel discount code
* Cars to Cypress
* Whistler transportation
* Dinner reservations (Banana Leaf Malaysian / Cactus Club upper scale pub/ Plaza 500 west coast/ Indian Buffet / All u can eat sushi on Broadway / Memphis Blues BBQ)
* Lunch catering (kitty? Tracy's food book & delivery)
[[category:Workshops]]
[[category:2009]]
